# Git is the open source program for tracking changes in text files that GitHub,which is just the social and user interface, is built on top of. Once you have made a github account you can make a repository, which is almost like a folder that contains all of the project files (including documentation), and stores each file's revision history. Repositories can have multiple collaborators and can be either public or private. You can make a copy of a repository that lives on your computer instead of a website server, this is called a clone. With a clone you can edit the files in whichever editor you chose and use Git to keep track of the changes without having to be connected to the internet. There are also commits that can be added to files. Commits are individual changes to a file (or set of files). It is almost like saving a file except every time you save it creates a unique ID that allows you to keep track of the changes and by whom they were made by. A commit could also be referred to as a revision. A commit can also show a brief message of what was changed. Once you commit something you would want to send your changes to a repsitory, such as one on GitHub. To do this is called pushing. Pushing sends your changed to a remote repository. On the flip side, there is pulling. For example, if two people are working on the same file, and the other person wants to have the same commits as the other, they would pull in those changes to their local copy so it is current. Say perhaps you want to make changes but not disrupt your live and working repository, you could create a branch. A branch is just the parallel version of the repository that is contained within the repository, but does not affect the primary or master branch.This lets you work freely without disrupting the "live" version and when you've made the changes you want to make, you can merge your branch back into the master branch to publish your changes. With branches you can then merge. Merging takes the changes from one branch (in the same repository), and applies them into another. This often happens as a pull request (which can be thought of as a request to merge), or via the command line. A merge can be done automatically via a pull request if there are no conflicting changes, but it can always be done via the command line. Be careful because merge conflicts may arise. Merge conflicts happen when you merge branches that have competing commits, and Git needs your help to decide which changes to incorporate in the final merge. You could gather the latest changes without merging them in, this is done by fetching. Fetching gets the latest changes from an online repository but does not merge them in. Once the changes are fetched you can compare them to local branches (local referring to the code within your machine). The remote version of something is hosted on a server, such as GitHub. It can be conntected to local clones so that changes are synced.


# https://help.github.com/en/articles/github-glossary
